In this lecture you will see how we can query the self deleted models.
So for this lecture to be useful to you you will have to have your database seated.
SO MAKE SURE YOU HAVE RUN THE DBC command and you have some blog posts and also some of them should
be deleted.
So they have to have deleted out column with some dates.
So if you do not have any blog posts deleted make sure you press delete a couple of times.
But of course you have to be logged in first.
So now let's go to the Visual Studio code and open the terminal make sure it's bigger or enlarged by
pressing this button.
Now let's run PSP artisan thinker because we'll be using it to make some queries on the self deleted
models.
As I've said previously when you solve the delete model or it is solved delectable the record itself
stays inside the database its just gets assign are deleted art column and those records will not show
up by default in larval queries.
So let's see that when you will do a blog post all so it should fetch all the models from the blog posts
table.
You shouldn't see the blog posts that were deleted even vote.
They actually are inside the table since this will give us a pretty long results with all the fields
like title and content.
We'll use our collection method from larval collections called pluck.
So it's a pretty simple method that you can use to pick only one property from the collection.
So all the models they have different properties they have I.D. title content and we will use this method
to only get the idea.
So let's see what we have.
So this is a list of all the ideas of the models and you can see that those do not include the models
that we have actually deleted.
You can either verify that by taking a look at the list inside your database you can see that for example
I did 10 wasn't included or let's see how we can query those.
How can query the blog posts table to also include models that were deleted.
So inside posts we have everything
and now if you will assign the result of log posts we've trashed.
So we are telling it to include also the trashed models so Lavell is calling those models that were
self deleted the trashed models so they are like kind of moving things in your system to the recycle
bin so you can restore them.
Now we should use get to get a collection because that we've trashed method is starting a new instance
of the query builder so to get the result we have to call get and now we'll also use pluck to get the
ideas
so we can see the list is significant land the bigger and it also includes the ideas that we do not
have here like 17 18 19.
It starts with those ideas and when we include also the trashed the models it starts with those that
we have actually deleted now.
There is also a way to fetch models only the models that were trashed and the method for this would
be blog posts only trashed.
It's also a query builder in stone so we'll use get and then we'll use block to only get the I.D. so
you can get a list of all the deleted models.
Of course since I have said that only trashed returns an instance of the query builder you can use that
to build a further more complicated queries.
So for example we can check or we can fetch only one records.
Let's say that it would have an I.D. for 18
so you can see that you can use further query methods on the only trust because it starts with our query
builder.
Now let's also fetch older models.
Once again we can assign it to the all variable.
So let us do a blog post with trashed get.
So we are now fetching the complete model we are and doing the plug.
So to get our single property.
And now there is also a method on the individual models so lets maybe I'll clear the screen first so
it's visible.
Let me fetch one model from those collection.
So I sign into the post variable and now inside all we already have fetched all the blog post models
including those trashed ones and a lot of our collections since of course all variable is our larval
collection also contains a find a method which by default will try to find an element by I.D..
So my case some of the deleted or trashed models let's say they have I.D. 14 because that's the case
in my example might be different in yours so I'm fetching a model that has deleted art dates set and
then you can figure out if a model was deleted by using trust methods.
So let's see post trashed and it should return true if I will fetch something else let's say that post
with I.D. wasn't deleted.
You can see on the screen that it doesn't have our deleted update.
Now if I were right post trashed it should return false.